 = 1st slide =

==Security==
- noun se·cu·ri·ty \si-ˈkyu̇r-ə-tē\
- the quality or state of being secure:
  - freedom from 
    - *danger*
    - *fear or anxiety*
    - *being laid off*: job security

== What is computer security? ==

Keeping systems, programs, and data "safe"
The CIA Triad:

Confidentiality:: Keep data & resources hidden
  :: Traditional focus of computer security
  :: Privacy is a reason for confidentiality (Freedom from intrusion)
Integrity:: The trustworthiness of the data or resources
  :: Data integrity
  :: Origin integrity - Authentication
  :: System integrity - System still works as expected
Availability:: Being able to use the data or resources
  :: Turning off a computer provides *confidentiality* & *integrity*
  :: but _hurts_ availability

== Security is... ==
Not only adding encryption or technical stuffs,

It's a *systems* issue

Software and Systems are complex:
  - Different OS's contain a lot of lines of code.
  - Systems have a lot of layers (microcode, firmware, OS, libraries, apps, devices)
  - ... and elements (clients, servers, networks, embedded devices)
  - There's also this so-called human factor (more like error)

Now on to the next...

 = 2nd slide =

== Security Goals ==
1) Prevention -
  prevent attackers from violating security policy 
2) Detection -
  detect & report attacks 
3) Recovery -
  stop the attack, repair damage 
 
== Policies & Mechanisms ==
Policy:: (1) What is or is not allowed
:: (2) Can be expressed in natural language or mathematics
:: - policy language (for precision and ease of understanding)

Mechanisms:: Implement and enforce policies

== Policies & Mechanisms ==
Security Architecture:: (1) Concept or philosophy on how to secure a system
:: - How to strengthen security? Possible weakness?

Security Engineering:: Implement mechanisms & policy into a system

In engineering, we have to make *compromises*

Security 
*VERSUS*
Cost, Performance, acceptability, usability

== Protection ==
Ultimately, who do we want to guard our system from?
* Yourself (clumsily deleting system files)
* Colleagues (privacy)
* Company, Government, Others, etc.

== Risk analysis ==
Should we protect something?

How seriously so? And how much should we spend?

== Definitions ==
Vulnerability:: A failure or bug, basically
Attack vector:: Type of attack/Component to break into the system
Exploit:: [Software|Commands|Instructions] to take advantage of a vulnerability

==== ? ====
What exactly is the difference between Attack vector and exploit?
* Attack vector, as it name suggests, is a means or pathway for the exploit.
  It's the pathway in which the hacker takes to do the bad thing itself,
  aka exploit.
====   ====

Attack (cyber attack):: The use of exploit to subvert security policies and mechanisms in place.
Threat:: adversary that can attack
Attack surface:: All the attack vectors in the system.

== Threats ==
Attackers often resort to three Bs:
- Burglary, Bribery, or Blackmail
=== Threat categories ===
- Disclosure: Unauthorized access to date
- Deception: Acceptance of false data
- Disruption: Interruption of correct operation
- Usurpation: Unauthorized control of some part of system
=== Threat actions ===
- Snooping (unauthorized interception of information): c w Cia
- Modification or alteration (""" change """ """): c w cIa
- Masquerading or spoofing (impersonation): c w cIa
- Repudiation of origin (wrongly denying that an entity sent/created smth): c w cIa
- Denial of receipt (""" received data or message): c w cIA
- Delay (temporary) & Denial of service (long-time inhibition of service): c w ciA

Note: counter with *

 = 3rd slide =
Once upon a time, the Internet wasn't as secure as functionality was focused on more

As a result, bad actors can hide at the edges of the network!

The internet, as a result, create vulnerabilities

== Asymmetric force ==
* Actors can project or harness greater force. Low barriers to entry. Offense can be more effective than defense. A small number of actors can have a large effect.
* Imbalance between defender and attacker, as I understand.

== Botnets ==
- Computers connected to a network(net) but infected with malicious software(bot)
- 3 common uses:
  - DDoS attacks
    - Overwhelm server with too much traffic to "deny others of service"
    - Spam Mailing
    - Cryptocurrency mining

== Anonymity ==
* hard to know attacker
* make guesses (thru reverse engineering)
* creates trust issues at times

== Attacks ==
- Social engineering
  - manipulate others to action for attackers' benefit.
- Phishing (sending unassuming malicious links in email to random people)
- Spear Phishing (Focused attack)
- Social Media or public (sometimes leaked) databases
  - Use info for future attacks

== Areas of Attack ==
1) Compromised access, code/command injection
2) Eavesdropping & Man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks
3) Web sites

== Networked Computer vs. Real-World Risks ==
Essentially, a crime done through the internet is easier and a lot less risky.
It could be due to a lot of reasons including:
* Attack from a distance
* Easy to cast a wide net (wait for vulnerable people to be baited)
* Physical world risks are low for most
Which is why there "computer(hack) attacks" happen more often.

 = 4th slide =
Threat Matrix:
* Script Kiddies (Low skill & Opportunistic attacker)
  * Uses hacking tools created by others
* APT or Advanced Persistent Threats (High skill & Targeted attacker)
  * Most difficult to guard against

== Types of threats ==
- Opportunistic
  - Attackers that dont focus on you specifically
  - High skill: discover vulnerabilities & create custom exploits
- Targeted attacks
  - Attackers focus on you
  - Prepare a lot for the attack
  - Low skill: Requires some work (social eng, distribution of malware)

== Characteristics of attackers ==
* Goals
  * Knowing goals helps develop countermeasures
* Levels of access (Insiders vs. Outsiders)
* Risk tolerance
  * [dis]likes taking risks
* Resources (Time is also a resource besides money)
* Expertise
* Economics
  * Balancing time, money, risk, etc...

== Adversaries ==
1) Hackers
  * Good or evil
  * White (good) & Black (bad) hat hackers
  * few are smart, rest are script kiddies
  * Bug hunters (find bugs)
  * Exploit writers (exploit vulnerabilities)
2) Criminals
  * often small $ but creative
3) Malicious insiders
  * Often have high levels of access
4) Industrial spies
  * Targets trade secrets
  * Bribe/become inside attackers
  * Risk averse: dislike taking risk
5) Press (& politicians)
  * Use any means if possible
6) Organized crime
  * Generally to earn more money
7) Police
  * Risk averse but have law on their side
  * Not above breaking law
8) Terrorists (freedom fighters)
  * Motivated by their beliefs
  * Usually low budget, low skill levels
9) National intelligence orgs
  * Huge money, Long-term goals
  * Somewhat risk averse
  * Often have a lot of influence
10) Nation-states
  * Huge money, short-term goals
